You listen to the Gatekeeper's rather long and extended history, a
sort of story about the rise and fall of Hell, the plots of Baphom-
et and his thirteen gatekeepers, among which this specific one was a
member of, as well as that of the Demon-Spitter from on Io. You even
learned of the dreaded Ice Weasel's connection to Hell on top of it...

The story feels like it was told over several days to you, but in
truth it was but merely about 3 or 4 hours. He begins to finally wind
down, as you notice his strength finally beginning to fade for real...

'This is where this story ends, human child. You won. You overcame
all odds and proved to me that the world was nothing like what I had
imagined. I have always wanted to know the truth... but I went too
far. I may have fought for a lost cause, yet I regret nothing. I be-
came convinced that Destiny itself guided you, and there is yet more
you will do, for your battle will not end here. I have felt that
there are still things to come and the future is dark for all of us.
I know you will be able to handle everything that comes, and I am
sure that the balance of Existence will remain safe. You defeated
Hell and its masters, but now even greater enemies will rise before
you... Whatever comes, defend your own truth, and let your brethren
defend theirs. Value life and freedom.' he croaks out weakly, as you 
feel his life-essence fully give out...

You can't help but actually feel a grim respect for the fallen 
demon in the end of it all. Even if he clearly was on a bad side of
things, he still held to his convictions in the end. And as he said,
so too now must -YOU-. You walk away from the now disintegrating
corpse of the Gatekeeper, his long story fresh in your mind. Now you
feel some of your own problems are a bit small in comparison...